---
title: "Unidirectional and selective proton transport in artificial heterostructured nanochannels with nano‐to‐subnano confined water clusters"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-06-18-Adv-Mater
date: 2020-06-18
venue: '<b>Advanced Materials</b>'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202001777'
citation: 'Li, X.Y.#, H.C. Zhang#*, H. Yu#, <u>J. Xia</u>, Y.B. Zhu, H.A. Wu*, J. Hou, J. Lu, R.W. Ou, C.D. Easton, C. Selomulya, M.R. Hill, L. Jiang and H.T. Wang, Unidirectional and selective proton transport in artificial heterostructured nanochannels with nano‐to‐subnano confined water clusters. <i>Advanced Materials</i>, 2020, 32(24): 2001777.'
---

<a href='https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202001777'>Download paper here</a>

The construction of biological proton channel analogues has attracted substantial interest owing to their wide potential in separation of ions, sensing, and energy conversion. Here, metal–organic framework (MOF)/polymer heterogeneous nanochannels are presented, in which water molecules are confined to disordered clusters in the nanometer-sized polymer regions and to ordered chains with unique molecular configurations in the 1D sub-1-nm porous MOF regions, to realize unidirectional, fast, and selective proton transport properties, analogous to natural proton channels. Given the nano-to-subnano confined water junctions, experimental proton conductivities in the polymer-to-MOF direction of the channels are much higher than those in the opposite direction, showing a high rectification up to 500 and one to two orders of magnitude enhancement compared to the conductivity of proton transport in bulk water. The channels also show a good proton selectivity over other cations. Theoretical simulations further reveal that the preferential and fast proton conduction in the nano-to-subnano channel direction is attributed to extremely low energy barriers for proton transport from disordered to ordered water clusters. This study opens a novel approach to regulate ion permeability and selectivity of artificial ion channels.

Recommended citation: Li, X.Y.#, H.C. Zhang#*, H. Yu#, <u>J. Xia</u>, Y.B. Zhu, H.A. Wu*, J. Hou, J. Lu, R.W. Ou, C.D. Easton, C. Selomulya, M.R. Hill, L. Jiang and H.T. Wang, Unidirectional and selective proton transport in artificial heterostructured nanochannels with nano‐to‐subnano confined water clusters. <i>Advanced Materials</i>, 2020, 32(24): 2001777.