---
title: "Strengthening and toughening hierarchical nanocellulose via humidity-mediated interface"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2021-01-26-ACS-Nano.html
date: 2021-01-26
venue: '<b>ACS Nano</b>'
paperurl: 'https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.0c08574'
citation: 'Y.Z. Hou#, Q.F. Guan#, <u><b>J. Xia#</b></u>, Z.C. Ling, Z.Z. He, Z.M. Han, H.B. Yang, P. Gu, Y.B. Zhu*, S.H. Yu*, and H.A. Wu*. Strengthening and toughening hierarchical nanocellulose via humidity-mediated interface. <i>ACS Nano</i>, 2021, 15(1): 1310–1320. '
citation: 'YuanZhen Hou#; Qing-Fang Guan#; <b>Jun Xia#</b>; Zhang-Chi Ling; ZeZhou He; Zi-Meng Han; Huai-Bin Yang; Ping Gu; YinBo Zhu*; Shu-Hong Yu*; HengAn Wu*; Strengthening and toughening hierarchical nanocellulose via humidity-mediated interface, <i>ACS Nano</i>, 2021, 15(1): 1310–1320. '
image: "/images/publication_images/2021-01-26-ACS-Nano.gif"
addinfo: '<a href="http://www.bfse.cas.cn/ztzl/bxddt/202105/P020210528578641665983.pdf"><b><i>B类先导亮点成果</i></b></a>'
---

**Abstract:** Undoubtedly humidity is a non-negligible and sensitive problem for cellulose, which is usually regarded as one disadvantage to cellulose-based materials because of the uncontrolled deformation and mechanical decline. But the lack of an in-depth understanding of the interfacial behavior of nanocellulose in particular makes it challenging to maintain anticipated performance for cellulose-based materials under varied relative humidity (RH). Starting from multiscale mechanics, we herein carry out first-principles calculations and large-scale molecular dynamics simulations to demonstrate the humidity-mediated interface in hierarchical cellulose nanocrystals (CNCs) and associated deformation modes. More intriguingly, the simulations and subsequent experiments reveal that water molecules (moisture) as the interfacial media can strengthen and toughen nanocellulose simultaneously within a suitable range of RH. From the perspective of interfacial design in materials, the anomalous mechanical behavior of nanocellulose with humidity-mediated interfaces indicates that flexible hydrogen bonds (HBs) play a pivotal role in the interfacial sliding. The difference between CNC–CNC HBs and CNC–water–CNC HBs triggers the humidity-mediated interfacial slipping in nanocellulose, resulting in the arising of a pronounced strain hardening stage and the suppression of strain localization during uniaxial tension. This inelastic deformation of nanocellulose with humidity-mediated interfaces is similar to the Velcro-like behavior of a wet wood cell wall. Our investigations give evidence that the humidity-mediated interface can promote the mechanical enhancement of nanocellulose, which would provide a promising strategy for the bottom-up design of cellulose-based materials with tailored mechanical properties.
